Core docs improvements (#1955)
NVIDIA/NeMo: docs/source/core/core.rst

        # we can set our own version with
        exp_manager.version: my_experiment_version

Neural Modules
==============
NeMo is built around Neural Modules, conceptual blocks of neural networks that take typed inputs
and produce typed outputs. Such modules typically represent data layers, encoders, decoders, language models, loss functions, or methods of combining activations.
NeMo makes it easy to combine and re-use these building blocks while providing a level of semantic correctness checking via its neural type system.

> .. note:: *All Neural Modules inherit from ``torch.nn.Module`` and, therefore, compatible with PyTorch ecosystem.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: *All Neural Modules inherit from ``torch.nn.Module`` and are therefore compatible with the PyTorch ecosystem.*
```

There are 3 types on Neural Modules:

    - Regular modules
    - Dataset/IterableDataset
    - Losses

Every Neural Module in NeMo must inherit from `nemo.core.classes.module.NeuralModule` class.

.. autoclass:: nemo.core.classes.module.NeuralModule

> Every Neural Modules inherits `nemo.core.classes.common.Typing` interface and needs to define neural types of it's inputs and outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Neural Modules inherits the `nemo.core.classes.common.Typing` interface and needs to define neural types for its inputs and outputs.
```

This is done by defining two properties: `input_types` and `output_types`.
Each property should return an ordered dictionary of "port name"->"port neural type" pairs.
This is the example from `nemo.collections.asr.modules.conv_asr.ConvASREncoder` class:

.. code-block:: python

    @property
    def input_types(self):
        return OrderedDict(
            {
                "audio_signal": NeuralType(('B', 'D', 'T'), SpectrogramType()),
                "length": NeuralType(tuple('B'), LengthsType()),
            }
        )

    @property
    def output_types(self):
        return OrderedDict(
            {
                "outputs": NeuralType(('B', 'D', 'T'), AcousticEncodedRepresentation()),
                "encoded_lengths": NeuralType(tuple('B'), LengthsType()),
            }
        )

    @typecheck()
    def forward(self, audio_signal, length=None):
        ...

> The code snippet above means that `nemo.collections.asr.modules.conv_asr.ConvASREncoder` expects two arguments:

Author: done

    * First one, named `audio_signal` of shape [batch, dimension, time] with elements representing spectrogram values.
    * Second one, named `length` of shape [batch] with elements representing lengths of corresponding signals.

> It also means that `.foraward(...)` and `__call__(...)` methods each produce two outputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also means that `.forward(...)` and `__call__(...)` methods each produce two outputs:
```

    * First one, of shape [batch, dimension, time] but with elements representing encoded representation (AcousticEncodedRepresentation class)
    * Second one, of shape [batch], corresponding to their lengths.

.. tip:: It is a good practice to define types and add `@typecheck()` decorator to your `.forward()` method once your module is ready for use by others.

> .. note:: The output of `.forward(...)` method will always be of type `torch.Tensor`, so it will work with any other Pytorch code. The type information will be carried with every tensor.

Author: changed

> If tensors without types will be passed to your module it will not fail but types will note be checked. Thus it is recommended to define input/output types for all your modules, starting with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If tensors without types will be passed to your module it will not fail but types will not be checked. Thus it is recommended to define input/output types for all your modules, starting with
```

The purpose of this type system is to catch semantic and dimensionality errors during
model creation and facilitate module re-use.

.. image:: whyntypes.gif
  :width: 900
  :alt: Neural Types Motivation

NeuralType class
----------------

Neural Types perform semantic checks for modules and models inputs/outputs. They contain information about:

    - Semantics of what is stored in the tensors. For example, logits, logprobs, audiosignal, embeddings, etc.
    - Axes layout, semantic and (optionally) dimensionality. For example: [Batch, Time, Channel]

Types are implemented in `nemo.core.neural_types.NeuralType` class. When you instantiate an instance of this class you
are expected to include both *axes* information and *element type* information.

.. autoclass:: nemo.core.neural_types.NeuralType

Type Comparison Results
-----------------------

When comparing two neural types the following comparison results can be generated.

.. autoclass:: nemo.core.neural_types.NeuralTypeComparisonResult

Examples
--------

Long vs short notation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NeMo's NeuralType class allows you to express axis semantics information in long and short form.

> Consider these two equivalent types. Both encoder 3 dimensional tensors and both contain elements of type `AcousticEncodedRepresentation` (this type is a typical output of ASR encoders).

Reviewer: Not sure how to fix but "Both encoder" seems wrong.

.. code-block:: python

    long_version = NeuralType(
            axes=(AxisType(AxisKind.Batch, None), AxisType(AxisKind.Dimension, None), AxisType(AxisKind.Time, None)),
            elements_type=AcousticEncodedRepresentation(),
        )
    short_version = NeuralType(('B', 'D', 'T'), AcousticEncodedRepresentation())
    assert long_version.compare(short_version) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.SAME

Transpose same
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Often it is useful to know if a simple transposition will solve type incompatibility.
This is the case if the comparison result of two types equals `nemo.core.neural_types.NeuralTypeComparisonResult.TRANSPOSE_SAME`.

.. code-block:: python

    type1 = NeuralType(axes=('B', 'T', 'C'))
    type2 = NeuralType(axes=('T', 'B', 'C'))
    assert type1.compare(type2) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.TRANSPOSE_SAME
    assert type2.compare(type1) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.TRANSPOSE_SAME

Note that in this example, we dropped `elements_type` argument of `NeuralType` constructor.

> If note supplied, the element type would be VoidType.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not supplied, the element type would be VoidType.
```

Sometimes it is useful to express that elements' types don't matter but axes layout does.
VoidType for elements can be used to express this.

.. note::
    VoidType is compatible with every other elements' type but not the other way around. See code snippet below for details.

.. code-block:: python

        btc_spctr = NeuralType(('B', 'T', 'C'), SpectrogramType())
        btc_spct_bad = NeuralType(('B', 'T'), SpectrogramType())
        # Note the VoidType for elements here
        btc_void = NeuralType(('B', 'T', 'C'), VoidType())

        # This is true because VoidType is compatible with every other element type (SpectrogramType in this case)
        # And axes layout between btc_void and btc_spctr is the same
        assert btc_void.compare(btc_spctr) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.SAME
        # These two types are incompatible because even though VoidType is used for elements on one side,
        # the axes layout is different
        assert btc_void.compare(btc_spct_bad) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.INCOMPATIBLE
        # Note that even though VoidType is compatible with every other type, other types are not compatible with VoidType!
        # It is one-way compatibility

>         assert btc_spctr.compare(btc_void) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.INCOMPATIBLE

Reviewer 2: Possibly in the future we might want to make it symmetric. Not for RC though,

Author: no, this is intentionally non symmetric. Think of a function which accepts (void*)  --- it should accept every type. but (int) should only accept int and reject void.

Element type inheritance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Neural types in NeMo support Python inheritance between element types.
Consider an example where you want to develop a Neural Module which performs data augmentation for all kinds of spectrograms.

> In ASR two types of spectrograms are frequently used: mel and mfcc. To express this we will create two 3 classes to express

Reviewer: Kind of hard to follow. What's meant by "two 3 classes"?

Custom element types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It is possible to create user-defined element types to express the semantics of elements in your tensors.
To do so, you need to inherit and implement abstract methods of `nemo.core.neural_types.elements.ElementType` class

.. autoclass:: nemo.core.neural_types.elements.ElementType

Note that element types can be parametrized. Consider this example where it distinguishes between audio sampled at 8Khz and 16Khz.

.. code-block:: python

    audio16K = NeuralType(axes=('B', 'T'), elements_type=AudioSignal(16000))
    audio8K = NeuralType(axes=('B', 'T'), elements_type=AudioSignal(8000))

    assert audio8K.compare(audio16K) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.SAME_TYPE_INCOMPATIBLE_PARAMS
    assert audio16K.compare(audio8K) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.SAME_TYPE_INCOMPATIBLE_PARAMS

Enforcing dimensions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In addition to specifying tensor layout and elements' semantics, neural types also allow you to enforce tensor dimensions.
You will have to use long notation to specify dimensions. Short notation only allows you to specify axes semantics and assumes
arbitrary dimensions.

.. code-block:: python

        type1 = NeuralType(

>         (AxisType(AxisKind.Batch, 64), AxisType(AxisKind.Time, 10), AxisType(AxisKind.Dimension, 128)),

Reviewer 2: Do we enforce this inside .compare()? I know `typecheck()` does not do actual shape enforcement. Ill add to my todos if .compare() doesnt do it currently.

Author: yes

Author: I actually copied unittests :D

        assert type2.compare(type1), NeuralTypeComparisonResult.SAME
        # type1 will not accept elements of type2 because it need dimensions to match strictly.
        assert type1.compare(type2), NeuralTypeComparisonResult.DIM_INCOMPATIBLE

Generic Axis kind
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sometimes (especially in the case of loss modules) it is useful to be able to specify a "generic" axis kind which will make it
compatible with any other kind of axis. This is easy to express with Neural Types by using `nemo.core.neural_types.axes.AxisKind.Any` for axes.

.. code-block:: python

        type1 = NeuralType(('B', 'Any', 'Any'), SpectrogramType())
        type2 = NeuralType(('B', 'T', 'C'), SpectrogramType())
        type3 = NeuralType(('B', 'C', 'T'), SpectrogramType())

        # type1 will accept elements of type2 and type3 because it only cares about element kind (SpectrogramType)
        # number of axes (3) and that first one corresponds to batch
        assert type1.compare(type2) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.SAME
        assert type1.compare(type3) == NeuralTypeComparisonResult.INCOMPATIBLE

Container types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> NeMo type system understands Python containers (lists). So if your module returns a list of typed tensors, the way to express it by

Reviewer 2: returns a "nested" list - we do support it. Dunno if any model actually uses more than depth 1 nest though so this sentence is fine too.

Author: added

> NeMo type system understands Python containers (lists). So if your module returns a list of typed tensors, the way to express it by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NeMo type system understands Python containers (lists). If your module returns a list of typed tensors, the way to express it is by
```

> using Python list notation and Neural Types together like in the example below when defining your input/output types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using Python list notation and Neural Types together when defining your input/output types:
```
